+++
date = "2015-03-16T12:34:27-04:00"
linktitle = "Mentorship"
title = "Mentoring Contributors & Users"

+++

With millions of Docker users all over the world, there's always someone
out there who needs a helping hand. Like many open source projects, the
Docker Project relies on community support channels like forums, IRC,
and StackOverflow. Helping out with support is one of the best first
steps you can take to get involved in any open source community, and is
a great way to contribute on an ongoing basis.

# Instant Gratification

Fixing bugs and improving documentation ways are surefire ways to
prevent eventual trouble for others, but if you want to have an
immediate impact, nothing beats Q&A. The feeling of moving a stumbling
block aside for a perfect stranger, or triggering a "Eureka!" moment
that helps someone become a better developer (and the thanks you'll
receive) is pretty fulfilling â€” and can be addictive!

# Broaden Your Knowledge, Deepen Your Perpsective

Making yourself available to help with support is an organic way expand
your exposure to aspects of the API and different techniques you (and
your colleagues) may not have already encountered. Solving an actual
problem is a great way to get hands-on experience with something new,
converting a piece of knowledge into an actual weapon in your toolbelt.
And even if you can't help with a particular question, just being around
to observe the problem and someone else's solution is a great way to
learn from others' mistakes, putting you in a position to avoid common
pitfalls without ever falling into them yourself.

Over time, however, you'll come to recognize the common problems that
pop up time and time again, and maybe even develop a knack for uniting
the those in need of help with that perfect link, no matter the subject.
Most importantly, however, this experience helps set you up to make
informed decisions when it comes to proposing and discussing new
features and changes, as you're able to make judgments and
recommendations that go beyond your own particular needs.

# Serve On The Front Lines

There's often a lot of overlap between bug triage and support.
Unfortunately, many users rush to support forums breathlessly claiming
to have discovered a bug at the first sight of an exception, when the
actual culprit is having misread some documentation or a lack of
experience with language principles. On the other hand, it's not
uncommon for a user to come in looking for help, assuming they're making
some sort of mistake, only to discover an actual bug that needs to be
filed and fixed. Working on Q&A puts you squarely in the middle of this
action, an indispensable link between users and the workarounds they
need to continue making progress on their projects, and core team
members and the reduced, confirmed test cases they need to actually
begin solving bugs.

# Where To Help

Live, interactive support for all Docker Project projects takes place
24/7 in the #docker IRC channel on Freenode, and it's a great place to
give and receive help with small- to medium-sized problems in all sorts
of environments. (If you're unfamiliar with Internet Relay Chat, take a
look at our IRC Help page for information about how to get connected and
what to expect once you're there.)

# Forums

Traditional, asynchronous "message-board" style support goes on at the
Docker Forum, which presently runs on Discourse. There are forums
for discussion of development issues, but the primary support takes
place on the Using Docker, Swarm and the other associated projects.

# StackOverflow

If features like karma and upvoting of answers appeal to you, there is a
vibrant, independent Docker support community on StackOverflow, the
popular Q&A site.
